Transformation, backend TLS draft, conrefs (#289)
kgateway-dev/kgateway.dev: content/docs/traffic-management/transformations/templating-language.md

---
title: Templating language
weight: 10

> description:

Reviewer: same

**Other common functions**

You might use default Inja functions, such as `if else` or `if exists`. For an example, see [Change response status](../change-response-status/). 

## Template attributes

Learn more about the template attributes that you can use to transform headers and bodies of requests and responses.

### `add`, `set`, `remove`

Apply transformation templates to add, set, or remode request or response headers. 

#### Static value

You can add request and response headers with static values. The following example adds the `my-header: static` request header and sets the `foo: bar` response header. 

```yaml
transformation: 
  request:
    add: 
    - name: my-header
      value: static
  response: 
    set: 
    - name: foo
      value: bar
```

#### Inja functions

You can use Inja functions in combination with Inja templates to modify request and response headers. 

In the following example, you set response headers in the following ways: 
* `x-gateway-response`: Use the value from the `x-gateway-request` request header and populate the value of that header into an `x-gateway-response` response header.

> * `x-podname`: Retrieve the value of the `POD_NAME` environment variable and add the value to the x-podname response header. Because the transformation is processed in the gateway proxy, these environment variables refer to the variables that are set on the proxy. You can view supported environment variables when you run `kubectl get deployment http -n kgateway-system -o yaml` and look at the `spec.containers.env` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `x-podname`: Retrieve the value of the `POD_NAME` environment variable and add the value to the x-podname response header. Because the transformation is processed in the gateway proxy, these environment variables refer to the variables that are set on the proxy. You can view supported environment variables when you run `kubectl get deployment http -n {{< reuse "/docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}} -o yaml` and look at the `spec.containers.env` section.
```
